---
title: Rejected
date: 2018-08-28 17:31:46 +0000
layout: post
tags:
- school
- choice
- education
img: "/uploads/090418rejected-2.png"
post: post

---
When W was in preschool, my husband and I would chat with the other parents about kindergarten plans. We’d throw out names of schools we were considering, weigh the pros and cons, share stories about what we’d heard or experienced.

From those conversations, we visited a couple of schools and finally landed on two: A small private school — and our home public school which taught half of the day in Spanish.

Like chumps, we thought we were in control of the education path W would follow. 

My husband and I interviewed for the private school. They didn’t want to meet our son, just us. “You have to let them know you’re REALLY interested,” parents from the school recommended. We participated in every activity. We wrote thank you notes. We leaned in.

We also filled out the public school forms and waited, secure in our decision.

And then we were rejected from the private school.

“So the public school it is,” we thought, “and now he’ll learn Spanish, and he’ll know a lot of kids from preschool.” We reasoned, still licking our wounds from our rejection and sudden lack of choice. In the meantime, W’s preschool teachers started reporting that our son wouldn’t work without constant supervision. “He really needs a small class size,” his teacher told us.

Shit.

By this time, all his classmates had been accepted to their chosen schools.

We scrambled around until we found a private Episcopal school that had smaller class sizes and went through the lengthy application process. “Congratulations!” our acceptance note said, “you’re on the waitlist!”

We had a spot if and when someone gave up their spot. No one abandoned their spot…and so we went to public school.

Kindergarten for W was difficult. We got disciplinary sheets home on the reg. He started enjoying the free time his “Think Times” afforded. Then there was the work. He hated worksheets. He balked that they didn’t have history. He didn’t understand Spanish. Every morning he begged to stay home.

So our thoughts returned to the Episcopal school.

We again completed the long application process. W went for a battery of tests. We hemmed and hawed about whether we wanted to send W to a religious school. Was it the best fit? 

The point ended up being moot. We were rejected. Again.

This time, however, felt better. This school had tested W and knew his strengths…and weaknesses. “He’s a great kid. Really smart, but he doesn’t have the focus it takes to excel in this school.”

It didn’t feel good, but it didn’t feel like we lost a popularity contest.

Fast forward a year later. My son continued at his public school. We loved the community, the kids, the principal and vice principal, but my son still wasn’t thriving like we felt he could. After testing, we found out he has ADHD and is at-risk for dyslexia. With this new knowledge in hand, we have just found a school my son loves — and so far, they seem to love him right back. 